# ProjectTeamE

Hello, my name is Andrew Pruitt. This program was a semester long group project at Jacksonville State University. The group I was in consisted of Adam Parker, Andrew Pruitt, Binh Doan, Jada Batiste, and Rafael Ramos. The program that we were assigned to work on is a time keep system to keep up with employees of a company as well as their clock in and clock out time/ hours worked. The program was assigned to also get my group mates and I used to working as a group in different sprints. Setting up the program to work with different features assigned to us from our professor for each sprint getting us used to a real-world working situation. Making us adapt and overcome any struggles that each one of us encountered along the way. Working on this project I learned about keeping a clear head and working through some of those struggles that come about as coding becomes more complex than simple one class projects. The code itself is written all in Java and uses a database with SQL. The Program includes several different classes that all contribute to make the main class run with each feature. The beginning classes are just to set up the variables that we used throughout the project. Making everything we needed easily accessible. Here are the Classes in order of appearance in the src folder.
The First of these classes is the “Badge” Class which sets the different badge variables for the program. Such as the “getId” and “setId” which allowed us to have a shortcut every time we need those values.
The next of the classes is the “CommonUtil” class. This class sets variables of different values we needed. Things like the clock in and out values are here. We also added a switch method here to control the description of a certain employee and whether they are clocked in or out. 
The next of the classes is the “DateTimeUtils” which is similar to the CommonUtil class except it focuses on the actual date and time intervals as the name suggest.
Another of this type of class is the “EmployeeType” Which sets up the id of the individual employee with their own ID and Description.
The First of the classes that are not strictly for setting up variables is the “Punch” class. This class utilizing a three if else statements to determine different reasons of clocking in or out. Two of the if else statements are held within the third if else statement. The first if else statement is used to start keeping up with the time of a clocked in employee. The second if else statement is to keep up with the times that the employees have clocked out. It does this while referencing both the DateTimeUtils class as well as the CommonUtil class to reference the start or stop of a shift as well as the time of the start or stopping of a shift.
The next class in order is the “PunchType” class which takes the values of different employee identification items and wraps them into a single class. Whether the item is the employee’s ID or description. 
The Shift class is used for all the different start and stop times for an employee. Including the the grace period of a shift start as well as a docking variable for time.
The “TASDatabase” is a class that that works at the database for the employees that work for the company. This class uses the “Punch” and “TASLogic” classes to use an array that stores the badges and time worked of the employees.
The “TASLogic” Class works as the setup for the “TASDatabase” class from initializing the database constants as well as connecting and disconnecting the database. This class creates an array that will keep up with the employee information and time worked from that employee. It will also get an employee’s time and badge ID, calculate the total minutes worked via an if else statement, and get the punch list as a JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) which is a lightweight data-interchange format.
The last class in order is the “Terminal” Class this is a simple class that also takes the id and description of a certain employee.

The repository also includes five different features the first of the features includes an example database for three different employees. The file includes their names and id’s as well as clock times. The feature takes the punch and shift values and compares them to their expected values.
The second feature takes the punch ids of the employees and inserts those into the database and uses the Gregorian calendar to create timestamp and Badge Objects for Punch List.
The third feature takes shift ruleset and punch data and adjusts the punches according to shift rulesets. Once it adjusts the data it compares the adjusted timestamps to the expected values. 
The fourth feature is used to calculate the pay period’s total. It does for different days worked and sees if it the workday was done on a weekday or a weekend. 
The fifth and final feature adds in a JSON conversion to what we had worked on in the previous features. 
